# Canada v.s. USA COVID-19 Analysis
**Summary:**
The COVID-19 pandemic has impacted every nation on earth and everyone has dealt with it differently. My project compares Canada and the US, meaning how did both countries deal with COVID-19 and what damages were caused? The data I am using has the total number of cases, deaths, and tests performed that day. Before I got into analyzing and making charts, I needed to verify I was comparing the right numbers. The US population is over 8 times the population of Canada and simply graphing the total number of cases would not work, furthermore, it would not provide any insight as there is no significance in a single number. To fix this issue, I decided to create new parts of my data which include cases per person, deaths per case, and tests performed per case. These new measurements will allow me to compare the two countries in a fair and logical way. Here’s what I found. I first plotted the cases per person and found that the US had a much higher number due to the higher population density which makes social distancing more challenging. Next, I plotted the deaths per person and this showed me that the US had 1 person dying for every 10 COVID-19 cases in March 2020 (peak). Both countries now sit at 1 death for every 50 cases as a result of improved medical equipment and experience. My final chart is the number of tests performed for every case, in this scenario, Canada had a much higher peak at 60 tests for every case in March 2020, and more tests conducted overall. This can be seen as overused resources, however, it is the reason why Canada has had fewer deaths and more control over the pandemic. My project can still be expanded in many ways, my next steps are focusing on social and economic features to provide insight on government decisions.

**Disclamer**: the charts were built using plotly.py and will not show on the Github notebook file, instead, **refer to the Jupyter Notebook Viewer**
